Explanation of the process of managing curated packages (#1877)
aws/eks-anywhere: docs/content/en/docs/concepts/eksapackages.md

---
title: "EKS Anywhere curated packages"
linkTitle: "EKS Anywhere curated packages"
weight: 4
date: 2022-04-12
description: >
  Explanation of the process of managing curated packages in an EKS Anywhere cluster
---

> EKS Anywhere curated packages is a framework to manage installation, configuration and maintenance of components that provide general operational capabilities for Kubernetes applications. Examples of these components include CSI, Ingress, LoadBalancer, Container Registry, Service Mesh, Secret Management, etc.

Reviewer: I don't think `framework` is the correct word here. More like a tool, or even a controller if we want to be very specific.

Reviewer: If we don't mind repeating `packages`, we'd say it's a `package manager`. Alternatively: `EKS Anywhere [curated] packages is a management system for installation, configuration and maintenance of additional components for your Kubernetes cluster.`

## Overview

> The major components of EKS Anywhere curated packages are the package controller, the package build artifacts and the command line interface. The package controller will run in a pod in an EKS Anywhere cluster. The package controller will install packages from EKS Anywhere public ECR repository of tested package images.

Reviewer: `The package controller will manage the lifecycle of packages tested and maintained by EKS Anywhere`

> The major components of EKS Anywhere curated packages are the package controller, the package build artifacts and the command line interface. The package controller will run in a pod in an EKS Anywhere cluster. The package controller will install packages from EKS Anywhere public ECR repository of tested package images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The major components of EKS Anywhere Curated Packages are the package controller, the package build artifacts and the command line interface. The package controller will run in a pod in an EKS Anywhere cluster. The package controller will install packages from either the EKS Anywhere public ECR repository or a private registry that mirrors the public registry.
```

## Package controller

> The package controller will install, configure and remove packages from the cluster. The package controller will watch the packages and packagebundle custom resources for the packages to run and their configuration values. The user will need to perform install, uninstall and updates of package controller using helm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The package controller will install, upgrade, configure and remove packages from the cluster. The package controller will watch the packages and packagebundle custom resources for the packages to run and their configuration values.
```

> The package controller will continual monitor for the latest bundle for the current Kubernetes release. The bundle controller will download and make active the latest bundle and all new installations will be from that active bundle. Any existing packages will show up as having an update available if the new bundle provides a newer release. It will be up to the customer to actually install the update. Any changes to an package will trigger and install, update or removal of that package. The package controller will use ECR to get all resources including bundle, helm charts, and container images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Package release information is stored in a package bundle manifest. The package controller will continual monitor and download new package bundles.  When a new package bundle is downloaded, it will show up as update available and users can use the CLI to activeate the bundle to upgrade the installed packages.

Any changes to a package custom resource will trigger and install, upgrade, configuration or removal of that package. The package controller will use ECR or private registry to get all resources including bundle, helm charts, and container images.
```

Reviewer 3: s/continual/continually

## Package build artifacts

> There are three types of build artifacts for packages: the container images, the helm charts and the package bundle manifests. The container images, helm charts and bundle manifests for all of the packages will be built and stored in EKS Anywhere public ECR repository. Each package may have multiple versions specified in the packages bundle. The bundle will reference package the helm chart tag in the ECR repository. The helm chart will reference the container images for the package.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are three types of build artifacts for packages: the container images, the helm charts and the package bundle manifests. The container images, helm charts and bundle manifests for all of the packages will be built and stored in EKS Anywhere public ECR repository. Each package may have multiple versions specified in the packages bundle. The bundle will reference the helm chart tag in the ECR repository. The helm chart will reference the container images for the package.
```
Not sure if this is what you meant.

---
title: "EKS Anywhere curated packages"
linkTitle: "EKS Anywhere curated packages"
weight: 4
date: 2022-04-12
description: >
  Explanation of the process of managing curated packages in an EKS Anywhere cluster
---

> EKS Anywhere Curated Packages is a management system for installation, configuration and maintenance of additional components for your Kubernetes applications. Examples of these components may include Container Registry, Ingress, and LoadBalancer, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
EKS Anywhere Curated Packages is a management system for installation, configuration and maintenance of additional components for your Kubernetes applications. Examples of these components may include Container Registry, Ingress, LoadBalancer, etc.
```

Reviewer 2: I also think `for your Kubernetes applications` is a bit awkward, but assume someone requested that. Seems like `for your Kubernetes cluster` would be better

## Overview

> The major components of EKS Anywhere Curated Packages are the package controller, the package build artifacts and the command line interface. The package controller will run in a pod in an EKS Anywhere cluster. The package controller will manage the lifecycle of packages tested and maintained by EKS Anywhere.

Reviewer 2: Three items are listed here and we only talk about one in this paragraph and two in the next paragraph and the next two sections are `##` instead of `###`

Reviewer 2: Maybe get rid of that `## Overview` and add a paragraph about the cli
